# CWE-798
## Description:
 CWE-798 represents situations where developers hardcode credentials, making them visible within the source code. This could involve placing usernames, passwords, API keys, or other authentication tokens directly in the code.
Risk: Hardcoding credentials increases the risk of unauthorized access and compromises the security of the system. If the source code is exposed, shared, or audited without proper protection, attackers could gain access to sensitive systems and data.
## Common Causes:
- Lack of awareness about security best practices.
- Developer oversight or negligence.
- Quick-and-dirty coding practices without considering security implications.

## Impact:
- Unauthorized access: Attackers who gain access to the source code can easily extract hardcoded credentials, potentially leading to unauthorized access to systems and sensitive information.
- Difficulty in credential management: Hardcoded credentials make it challenging to update, rotate, or manage credentials securely.

## Mitigation:
- Use configuration files or environment variables to store sensitive information.
- Integration of Password Vault.

## Current Context:

We have put Hoodop code base unde the scan to check if there is any vulnerability exist in the source code. The scan report we have considered here is generated by Snyk and CodeQl. There were various CWE observed and CWE-789 is choosed as VoI.

THe issue exist in `hadoop/hadoop-mapreduce-project/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-client-core/src/main/java/org/apache/hadoop/mapreduce/lib/db/DBConfiguration.java` file where the potential "Use of Hardcoded Credentials" vulnerability is related to the storage of database connection information directly within the source code. Here's the specific part of the code that raises the concern:

```
/** User name to access the database */
public static final String USERNAME_PROPERTY = "mapreduce.jdbc.username";

/** Password to access the database */
public static final String PASSWORD_PROPERTY = "mapreduce.jdbc.password";
```
In this code, the username and password for accessing the database are hard-coded as constant strings. This practice is considered a security risk because:
1. sibility: The credentials are clearly visible in the source code, making them accessible to anyone with access to the codebase. This includes developers, collaborators, and potentially unauthorized individuals.
2. Security Risks: Hardcoding credentials increases the risk of unauthorized access if the codebase is shared or exposed to individuals who shouldn't have access to the database.
3. Maintenance Challenges: Changing or rotating credentials becomes more challenging when they are hardcoded. If the database credentials need to be updated due to security reasons (e.g., password expiration, suspected compromise), every instance of the hardcoded credentials in the codebase must be manually updated.
**mitigation Plan:**
To mitigate this vulnerability, it's recommended to store sensitive information, such as database credentials, outside the source code. Common approaches include using configuration files, environment variables, or secure vaults to manage and protect sensitive information.
**Action Taken So far:**
We have understood the code base and Able to spot the issue. We understand that there need to be code changes and the initial code modification is done. THe Next step is to spotting the dependent file and validate the new code is not breaking them. The WIP :
1st version is here :  https://github.com/apache/hadoop/compare/trunk...samirparhi-dev:hadoop:trunk
